---
layout: post
title: Week Four

---

Week Four was a week of challenge and opportunity. As the first exam and the introduction to the major group project came about, it certainly was a busy week. However with all of the hustle and bustle associated the class this past week, there was a rewarding experience in the end just in time to celebrate Independence day. 

I had prepared a good amount of time for the first exam. From reviewing python concepts, going over class examples, to attempting the problems crafted by classmates, I believed I was equipped to take on the exam. Upon leaving the exam, I felt confident about my answers however I knew I had made a few mistakes. As a result of the experience I now know on future exams how to better balance my time and focus during exams. With the results in, I am satisfied with my grade, yet I know there is still plenty of room for a great amount of improvement on exam two!

Forming my group for the project was successful. As a hint to fellow CS students, it is helpful to be social! As I had known another partnership in the class and I had befriended people in the class I quickly went on to form a group of five with diverse skill sets and enthusiasm for the making of the IMDB-like website the project entails. Despite the amount of organization and collaboration that the project entails, the opportunity to learn various technologies is very exciting!  My teammates and I have decided to do a recipe/food database website and I am stoked to work toward the finished project.

As a tech tip of the week, my tip would be the use of Slack (the collaboration app). At first I thought it was just another chat application like GroupMe, or even Facebook messenger, but there’s more to it. The application presents a great way to organize your various groups and conversations in an orderly fashion. With the application supporting both a mobile friendly and laptop setting. Please try it out! Until next week!

