---
layout: post
title: Week Six

---

This past week was yet another adventure in the course of software engineering. With a little over a week to go in the course, there’s still so much to learn and do.  However this past week presented major progress in both my comprehension and effort for the class, both inside and outside the classroom. 

With refactoring and SQL as the major topics in this week’s lecture I took major interest in class this week, as these are topics that I have encountered practically on a daily bases in current IT internship.  As I am going full time after graduation this summer with that same company, I know that the skills of refactoring and SQL are invaluable not only for this job but any job in the future that I would hold in the field of software.  Furthermore, this week’s lecture series provided a great insight into one of the country’s most popular tech companies right now through Dr. Downing’s hosting of speakers from Atlassian. At my current job many teams are switching from using VersionOne to track issues and backlogs to JIRA , hence it was a great experience to hear a walkthrough of the tools directly from the source.  

Project 4 was an interesting experience. I know not only felt that I was able to delve more into the Django framework, but I also witnessed a better understanding of APIs and the backend’s connection to the UI and frontend.   Additionally, our team began to mesh better and we became more effective at implementing various features.  Onto project 5!

As a tech tip of the week, I encourage everyone to use http://www.jsoneditoronline.org/ as a potential tool for formatting json data. Upon connecting backend and frontend functionality, it was vital to know what was in the data we had scrapped and how it was organized. Hence this visual node based editor (similar to oxygen with XML) allowed us to effectively communicate and develop a solution with our data.  Until next week!

