---
layout: post
title: Week Five
---

Week five was an awakening.  As my partners and I delve into the first phase of the big web application project, we had great expectations but encountered several obstacles and roadblocks that we had to overcome. Despite this week being a continuation of my understanding and growth in software engineering, it presented one of the toughest weeks of the semester thus far.

As the in-class lectures introduced new and efficient ways to comprehend functions and invocations in python vs. JavaScript, as well as an introduction to sequel, it was the start of the big project that stayed in the back of mind the whole week and took up a lot of my time. With the condensed schedule of the summer class, my group mates and I’s expectations and plans for the first project saw several challenges.  We had planned everything out in the first few days of the project and got the ball rolling on development.  However, with the interest of time, this was not the best idea. What we should of done was taken an Xtreme Programming approach and designed more as we developed, as plans are always going to change through the course of an iteration.  

In regards the technical aspects of the project, learning the new technologies in the time allotted was tough. Although my teammates and I were able to finally get a grasp on the various frameworks and tools, with everyone’s unique schedule it took some time to orchestrate everything together. I am very excited for the next phase of the project where I am delving more into working with databases, and expanding the functionality of our food exploration website. However the biggest challenge again is the race against the clock. But hey, that’s life right?

As a tech tip of the week, I highly encourage those who are interested in web development to use the Django open source framework. It not only presents a cool way to organize your web application, but it also facilitates models for your database and easy support of your static and html files.  Until next week!

