---
layout: post
title: Week Two
---


Week 2 is a wrap.  As my education in python, JavaScript, and software engineering practices continues, I find the challenge of keeping up with the class enjoyable and fulfilling.  From operators to iterables, I was able to delve into the elegance of different software design patterns. 

In terms of my class performance, there were both highlights and items with room for improvement.  After having a rough time with the quizzes for the previous week, I modified my study style and was able to enhance my performance to my expectations.  However upon being called on in class, I felt that I was not able to adequately respond to Dr. Downing’s questions during the code walkthroughs. Perhaps it was stage freight, but whatever the reason I can certainly do better.  In order to improve this I will aim to speak louder and to take a shot at the question even if I don’t know the answer as oppose to taking a few awkward quiet moments to respond. 

Project One came to a close and I thought it was an impactful project. I was able to not only refine my skills with unit testing, code coverage, and continuous integration servers but I also finished the project early. From learning useful mathematical principles to being able to pace myself for the first time in quite some time in regards to a CS project I enjoyed Collatz.

As my tech “tip of the week”, as I continue work on the second project “Netflix”, I would recommend pair programming when able allowed.  Although we can all be maverick cowboy coders, the practice of pair programming is extremely powerful. Not only do you have to practice patience and communication, but the sharing of knowledge and ideas can be very rewarding toward developing good code.  Pair programming provides not only ways for you and your partner to tackle problems together it also provides elegant functional code. Until next week!




