---
layout: post
title: Week Two
---

Week 2 is a wrap.  As my education in python, JavaScript, and software engineering practices continues, I find the challenge of keeping up with the class enjoyable and fulfilling.  From operators to iterables, I was able to delve into the elegance of different software design patterns. 

In terms of my class performance, there were both highlights and items with room for improvement.  After having a rough time with the quizzes for the previous week, I modified my study style and was able to enhance my performance to my expectations.  However upon being called on in class, I felt that I was not able to adequately respond to Dr. Downing’s questions during the code walkthroughs. Perhaps it was stage freight, but whatever the reason I can certainly do better.  In order to improve this I will aim to speak louder and to take a shot at the question even if I don’t know the answer as oppose to taking a few awkward quiet moments to respond. 

Project One came to a close and I thought it was an impactful project. I was able to not only refine my skills with unit testing, code coverage, and continuous integration servers but I also finished the project early. From learning useful mathematical principles to being able to pace myself for the first time in quite some time in regards to a CS project I enjoyed Collatz.

	As my tech “tip of the week”, as I continue work on the second project “Netflix”, I would recommend pair programming when able allowed.  Although we can all be maverick cowboy coders, the practice of pair programming is extremely powerful. Not only do you have to practice patience and communication, but the sharing of knowledge and ideas can be very rewarding toward developing good code.  Pair programming provides not only ways for you and your partner to tackle problems together it also provides elegant functional code. Until next week!


---
layout: post
title: Week One

---


I decided to take Dr. Downing’s software engineering course as my final class of my college career. I had heard a course with Professor Downing was a valuable learning experience, and week one was certainly a confirmation.  The two biggest take a ways that I received from the course within this first week was the focus on class participation and the attention to detail.  

From the very first day of class Dr. Downing “invited” (if you didn’t answer you were marked absent) students to participate in the class discussion of the material. Whereas many other professors in the department prefer the lecture style format for classes, an attribute of the class that I found engaging is that Dr. Downing facilities the learning process by guiding a class Discussion between him and the students. I admit I am not one to enjoy being put on the spot in class, yet I found the practice better for my own good because it forced me to pay better attention in lecture. You just never know when you’ll called on…

Furthermore, a part of the class that I took the first few days to get used to was the course’s attention to detail. From the quizzes that keep you on your feet to ensuring that you are keeping on track with the specific requirements on the project page, I allocated much of my study time to knowing details. I know I will become a better developer by ensuring I have the bases covered in terms of the customer’s requests, but the thought of “breaking the script” is a little nerve wrecking. Hence, as I work on the first project incrementally and to completion, I am striving to ensure I have all of the specifications that are wanted. 

A tip of the week in regards to a tool that I found useful in the class this week was certainly the use of Git Hub. At my work we share projects via SVN, and in previous class projects my teammates and I took on the cumbersome task of just emailing code. Git hub is certainly a tool that every CS students should sign up for as it makes sharing and communicating via its wiki issue page a lot easier for development. 

As a final remark to students interested in taking this course in the future, my suggestion is to go to the professor’s office hours. I took the initiative to see Dr. Downing twice this week and I feel that I am more connected with the class by asking about course materials and just talking with him about my future plans. A trip is a pleasant experience, but let me recommend you take the elevator as his office is on the 6th floor. By choice I take the stairs, but I promise you you’ll be winded when you reach the top!

